Title: Do soil conservation practices exceed their relevance as a countermeasure to greenhouse gases emissions and increase crop productivity in agriculture?
Abstract: Globally, agriculture sector is the significant source of greenhouse gases (GHGs) emissions into the atmosphere. To achieve the goal of limiting or mitigating these emissions, a rigorous abatement strategy with an additional focus on improving crop productivity is now imperative. Replacing traditional agriculture with soil conservation-based farming can have numerous ecological benefits. However, most assessments only consider improvements in soil properties and crop productivity, and often preclude the quantitative impact analysis on GHGs emissions. Here, we conducted a meta-analysis to evaluate crop productivity (i.e., biomass, grain, total yield) and GHGs emissions (i.e., CO2, N2O, CH4) for three major soil conservation practices i.e., no-tillage, manures, and biochar. We also examined the yield potential of three major cereal crops (i.e., wheat, rice, maize) and their significance in mitigating GHGs emissions. None of the manures were able to reduce GHGs emissions, with poultry manure being the largest contributor to all GHGs emissions. However, pig-manure had the greatest impact on crop yield while emitting the least CO2 emissions. Use of biochar showed a strong coupling effect between reduction of GHGs (i.e., CH4 by -37%; N2O by -25%; CO2 by -5%) and the increase in crop productivity. In contrast, no-tillage resulted in higher GHGs emissions with only a marginal increase in grain yield. Depending on crop type, all cereal crops showed varied degrees of GHGs mitigation under biochar application, with wheat responding most strongly due to the additional yield increment. The addition of biochar significantly reduced CO2 and N2O emissions under both rainfed and irrigated conditions, although CH4 reductions were identical in both agroecosystems. Interestingly, the use of biochar resulted in a greater yield benefit in rainfed than in irrigated agriculture. Despite significant GHGs emissions, manure application contributed to higher crop yields, regardless of soil type or agroecosystem. Moreover, no-tillage showed a significant reduction in CH4 and N2O emissions under rainfed and irrigated conditions. Notably, biochar application in coarse while no-till in fine textured soils contributed to N2O mitigation. Most importantly, effectiveness of no-tillage as a countermeasure to GHGs emissions while providing yield benefits is inconsistent. Overall, the decision to use farm manures should be reconsidered due to higher GHGs emissions. We conclude that the use of biochar could be an ideal way to reduce GHGs emissions. However, further understanding of the underlying mechanisms and processes affecting GHGs emissions is needed to better understand the feedback effects in conservation agriculture. © 2021 Elsevier B.V.
Review Question: What are the effects of soil conservation practices (no-tillage, manures, and biochar) on crop productivity (i.e., biomass, grain, total yield) and greenhouse gas emissions?
