Title: How do natural soil NH4+, NO3- and N2O interact in response to nitrogen input in different climatic zones? A global meta-analysis
Abstract: The increase of fossil-fuel burning and nitrogen (N) fertilizer consumption continues to elevate global N deposition, leading to significant increases of soil NH4+ and NO3- concentrations, and thus N2O emissions. This is especially important for natural, unmanaged soils which are considered as areas that are sensitive to N input. However, uncertainties exist regarding the interactions of soil N2O emissions with soil NH4+ and NO3- concentrations in response to N input in different climatic regions, as well as their underlying potential mechanisms. Here, we conducted a meta-analysis to investigate the responses of these three forms of N to external N input across global natural ecosystems, using data extracted from peer-reviewed studies. The results show that soil NO3- concentrations are increased to a much larger extent by N input in temperate regions (136%) compared to tropical (62%) and subtropical (54%) regions, whereas the increase of soil NH4+ concentrations by N input is much less than soil NO3- concentrations, at 20%, 26% and 28% in temperate, tropical and subtropical regions, respectively. The significantly larger increase in soil NO3- concentrations but slightly lower increase in soil NH4+ concentrations in temperate regions compared to other climatic zones may be ascribed to the dominant nitrification process in temperate areas, which promotes the conversion of NH4+ to NO3-. Soil N2O emissions were increased to the greatest extent in subtropical regions (348%) in response to N input, followed by temperate regions (111%) and tropical regions (44%), which may be a result of the dominant denitrification process in subtropical regions, which promotes N2O production. It is likely that denitrification also dominates N2O production in tropical regions, but the dampened effect of N input on stimulating soil N2O emissions in these areas suggests that the loss of NO3- substrate due to intensive leaching might be an important issue. This study could provide a better understanding of the heterogeneous risks of soil N responses in different climatic zones in the context of increasing global N deposition.
Review Question: What are the effects of nitrogen input on soil nitrous oxide emissions and soil ammonia and nitrate concentrations in natural ecosystems?
