Title: Response of plant functional traits to nitrogen enrichment under climate change: A meta-analysis
Abstract: Soil nitrogen (N) supply is essential in influencing plant functional traits and regulating plant morphological and physiological performances. The effects of N on plants can be altered by complex environmental changes. However, conflicting results have been reported on the co-effects of N and climatic variables on plant performance, which may be attributed to differences in experiment setting and approach, e.g., ecosystem, duration, plant type, and fertilizer form. To elucidate the general response of plant performance to increasing soil N availability under climate change, a global meta-analysis was conducted to synthesize 380 publications studying interactions of N enrichment and four climatic variables (e.g., elevated atmospheric CO2 (eCO2), drought, precipitation, and warming) on performance-related traits (e.g., size, nutrient, and fitness). Results showed that N enrichment increased shoot and root size, nutrient, and fitness of terrestrial plants. The synergistic interactions of N × eCO2 and antagonistic interactions of N × drought were found on plant overall performance (mainly on plant size), indicating that the N effects can be aggregated by eCO2 and mitigated by drought. The co-effects of N and climatic variables on plant overall performance rely on experiment approach, duration, ecosystem type, or plant functional type. Synergistic interactions of N × eCO2 and antagonistic interactions of N × drought, N × precipitation, and N × warming on plant overall performance were found mainly in greenhouse experiments and short-term experiments (duration ≤ one year), but not in the field or longer-term experiments. The results highlighted that N effects on plant performance were not isolated, but can be modified by climate changes. These findings can improve the future modeling predictions of plant performance under complex climate change and provide a fundamental basis for N management strategies to optimize plant performance in production, N nutrient, and reproduction while enabling sustainability of plant production systems. © 2022
Review Question: What are the impacts of Nitrogen enrichment on plant performance-related traits under climate change?
