Title: Nitrogen addition stimulates soil aggregation and enhances carbon storage in terrestrial ecosystems of China: A meta-analysis
Abstract: China is experiencing a high level of atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition, which greatly affects the soil carbon (C) dynamics in terrestrial ecosystems. Soil aggregation contributes to the stability of soil structure and to soil C sequestration. Although many studies have reported the effects of N enrichment on bulk soil C dynamics, the underlying mechanisms explaining how soil aggregates respond to N enrichment remain unclear. Here, we used a meta-analysis of data from 76N manipulation experiments in terrestrial ecosystems in China to assess the effects of N enrichment on soil aggregation and its sequestration of C. On average, N enrichment significantly increased the mean weight diameter of soil aggregates by 10%. The proportion of macroaggregates and silt-clay fraction were significantly increased (6%) and decreased (9%) by N enrichment, respectively. A greater response of macroaggregate C (+15%) than of bulk soil C (+5%) to N enrichment was detected across all ecosystems. However, N enrichment had minor effects on microaggregate C and silt-clay C. The magnitude of N enrichment effect on soil aggregation varied with ecosystem type and fertilization regime. Additionally, soil pH declined consistently and was correlated with soil aggregate C. Overall, our meta-analysis suggests that N enrichment promotes particulate organic C accumulation via increasing macroaggregate C and acidifying soils. In contrast, increases in soil aggregation could inhibit microbially mediated breakdown of soil organic matter, causing minimal change in mineral-associated organic C. Our findings highlight that atmospheric N deposition may enhance the formation of soil aggregates and their sequestration of C in terrestrial ecosystems in China. © 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Review Question: What is the effect of nitrogen enrichment of soils on soil aggregation and soil sequestration of carbon in China?
