Title: Combined applications of organic and synthetic nitrogen fertilizers for improving crop yield and reducing reactive nitrogen losses from China&#8217;s vegetable systems: A meta-analysis
Abstract: The combined application of organic and synthetic nitrogen (N) fertilizers is being widely recommended in China's vegetable systems to reduce reliance on synthetic N fertilizer. However, the effect of substituting synthetic fertilizer with organic fertilizer on vegetable productivity (yield, N uptake and nitrogen use efficiency) and reactive nitrogen (Nr) losses (N2O emission, N leaching and NH3 volatilization) remains unclear. A meta-analysis was performed using peer-reviewed papers published from 2000 to 2019 to comprehensively assess the effects of combined application of organic and synthetic N fertilizers. The results indicate that overall, the vegetable yield, N2O emission and NH3 volatilization were not significantly changed, whereas N leaching was reduced by 44.6% and soil organic carbon (SOC) concentration increased by 12.5% compared to synthetic N fertilizer alone. Specifically, when synthetic N substitution rates (SRs) were ≤70%, vegetable yields and SOC concentration were increased by 5.5%–5.6% and 13.1–18.0%, and N leaching was reduced by 41.6%–48.1%. At the high substitution rate (SR&gt;70%), vegetable yield was reduced by 13.6%, N2O emission was reduced by 14.3%, and SOC concentration increased by 16.4%. Mixed animal-plant sources of organic N preferentially increased vegetable yield and SOC concentration, and reduced N2O emission and N leaching compared with single sources of organic-N. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission was decreased by 28.4%–34.9% by combined applications of organic and synthetic N sources, relative to synthetic N fertilizer alone. We conclude that appropriate rates (SR ≤ 70%) of combined applications of organic and synthetic N fertilizers could improve vegetable yields, decrease Nr and GHG emission, and facilitate sustainable development of coupled vegetable-livestock systems. © 2020 Elsevier Ltd
 Capsule: Appropriate substitution of synthetic N fertilizer with organic fertilizers could increase vegetable yields and SOC concentration, and reduce N leaching and GHG emission. © 2020 Elsevier Ltd
Review Question: What is the effect of combined applications of organic and synthetic nitrogen fertilizers compared to synthetic nitrogen fertilizer alone on vegetable crop yield, nitrogen uptake, nitrogen use efficiency, nitrous oxide emission, nitrogen leaching, ammonia volatilization and soil organic carbon concentration in China?
