Title: Carbon accumulation in agroforestry systems is affected by tree species diversity, age and regional climate: A global meta-analysis
Abstract: Aim Agroforestry is a globally practised system of land use for achieving greater and more diverse biomass production, but it has other ecological benefits, such as mitigation of climate change. Despite this, long-term carbon (C) accumulation in different components of agroforestry systems, the drivers for C accumulation and the linkages between tree biomass and soil C stocks remain unclear. Location Global. Time period From 1989 to 2019. Major taxa studied Trees. Methods Here, we report on a global meta-analysis based on 141 studies to identify patterns of C accumulation in tree-based agroforestry systems compared with sole cropland and pasture. Results We found that agroforestry systems had, on average, 46.1 Mg/ha (95% confidence interval, 36.4-55.8 Mg/ha) more C in tree biomass compared with sole cropland- or pasture-based land uses without trees. Furthermore, agroforestry systems with multiple tree species contained greater biomass C stocks and accumulated biomass C faster than systems with a single tree species. The effect of agroforestry practices on soil C stock increased with tree age, although such increases varied among climatic zones. Agroforestry systems in tropical zones had the ability to increase soil C to peak levels quickly, whereas soil C in temperate zones increased at a slower rate but peaked at a greater overall soil C level. Our structural equation model did not detect a direct linkage between biomass C and changes in total soil C stock in agroforestry systems. Main conclusions Our results demonstrate that planting multiple tree species in agroforestry systems is an important strategy to increase biomass C sequestration, with regional climate affecting the temporal change of soil C in response to agroforestry practices.
Review Question: What is the effect of agroforestry systems establishment on soil carbon stocks?
