Title: Quantifying the effects of biochar application on greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural soils: A global meta-analysis
Abstract: Agricultural disturbance has significantly boosted soil greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions such as methane (CH4), carbon dioxide (CO2), and nitrous oxide (N2O). Biochar application is a potential option for regulating soil GHG emissions. However, the effects of biochar application on soil GHG emissions are variable among different environmental conditions. In this study, a dataset based on 129 published papers was used to quantify the effect sizes of biochar application on soil GHG emissions. Overall, biochar application significantly increased soil CH4 and CO2 emissions by an average of 15% and 16% but decreased soil N2O emissions by an average of 38%. The response ratio of biochar applications on soil GHG emissions was significantly different under various management strategies, biochar characteristics, and soil properties. The relative influence of biochar characteristics differed among soil GHG emissions, with the overall contribution of biochar characteristics to soil GHG emissions ranging from 29% (N2O) to 71% (CO2). Soil pH, the biochar C:N ratio, and the biochar application rate were the most influential variables on soil CH4, CO2, and N2O emissions, respectively. With biochar application, global warming potential (impact of the emission of different greenhouse gases on their radiative forcing by agricultural practices) and the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (emission rate of a given pollutant relative to the intensity of a specific activity) significantly decreased, and crop yield greatly increased, with an average response ratio of 23%, 41%, and 21%, respectively. Our findings provide a scientific basis for reducing soil GHG emissions and increasing crop yield through biochar application. © 2020 by the authors.
Review Question: What is the impact of biochar application on greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural soils?
