Title: When does nutrient management sequester more carbon in soils and produce high and stable grain yields in China?
Abstract: In agro-ecosystems, fertilization practices must accomplish high and stable crop productivity, with maximum soil organic carbon (SOC) sequestration to address climate change and food security challenges. However, the impacts of these practices on SOC and crop yields are variable over the long-term duration, and an improved understanding of the factors influencing SOC sequestration and sustainable productivity is still needed to provide evidence-based management decisions. Therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis to evaluate the impact of long-term (≥10 years) application of different fertilizer management practices adapted across China on crop productivity, yield sustainability, and SOC sequestration. Results indicated that unbalanced mineral fertilizer (UMF), balanced mineral fertilizer (BMF), organic fertilizers (OF), combined unbalanced mineral and OF, and combined balanced mineral and organic fertilizers (BMOF) significantly enhanced the grain yield, and SOC sequestration compared with control (p <.05). For UMF, the increases in SOC and grain yields were least among fertilization practices. Comparing OF, BMF mostly produced more grain yields, but with a slight increase in C sequestration. Highest SOC sequestration rate of 0.43 Mg C ha−1 yr−1 was recorded in BMOF, among all the treatments. The data obtained indicated that SOC sequestration is highly time-dependent. Irrespective of fertilization mode, SOC gradually increased and attained the peak of sequestration rate in the initial two decades rather than at later stages of fertilizer addition. The linear fitted model indicated that an increase in SOC sequestration benefits sustainable productivity. The available data indicate that crop yields can be improved by 143 kg ha−1 for rice (Oryza sativa), 255 kg ha−1 for maize (Zea mays), and 202 kg ha−1 for wheat (Triticum aestivum) with every 1 Mg ha−1 increase in SOC stock by fertilization in the root zone. In crux, BMOF can maintain and improve soil quality while producing high and stable crop yields. © 2020 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Review Question: What impacts do long-term application of fertilizer management practices have on crop productivity, yield sustainability, and soil organic carbon sequestration in agro-ecosystems in China?
