Title: Faster nitrogen cycling and more fungal and root biomass in cold ecosystems under experimental warming: a meta-analysis
Abstract: Warming can alter the biogeochemistry and ecology of soils. These alterations can be particularly large in high northern latitude ecosystems, which are experiencing the most intense warming globally. In this meta-analysis, we investigated global trends in how experimental warming is altering the biogeochemistry of the most common limiting nutrient for biological processes in cold ecosystems of high northern latitudes (&gt;50°): nitrogen (N). For comparison, we also analyzed cold ecosystems at intermediate and high southern latitudes. In addition, we examined N-relevant genes and enzymes, and the abundance of belowground organisms. Together, our findings suggest that warming in cold ecosystems increases N mineralization rates and N2O emissions and does not affect N fixation, at least not in a consistent way across biomes and conditions. Changes in belowground N fluxes caused by warming lead to an accumulation of N in the forms of dissolved organic and root N. These changes seem to be more closely linked to increases in enzyme activity that target relatively labile N sources, than to changes in the abundance of N-relevant genes (e.g., amoA and nosZ). Finally, our analysis suggests that warming in cold ecosystems leads to an increase in plant roots, fungi, and (likely in an indirect way) fungivores, and does not affect the abundance of archaea, bacteria, or bacterivores. In summary, our findings highlight global trends in the ways warming is altering the biogeochemistry and ecology of soils in cold ecosystems, and provide information that can be valuable for prediction of changes and for management of such ecosystems. © 2020 The Authors. Ecology published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of Ecological Society of America
Review Question: What is the impact of experimental warming on nitrogen dynamics of high-latitude, 'cold' ecosystem soils?
