Title: Regulation of soil CO 2 and N 2 O emissions by cover crops: A meta-analysis
Abstract: Cover crops provide multiple agronomic and environmental benefits, such as enhanced soil carbon sequestration, aggregation, water infiltration, and reduced erosion and nutrient leaching compared with no cover crop. However, little is known regarding the effect of cover crop species, biomass quality and quantity, and method of residue placement on greenhouse gas (GHG)emissions. Using meta-analysis, this study examined the effect of cover crop species, quality and quantity of biomass, and residue management on response ratios (RRs)of cover crops to no cover crop on CO 2 and N 2 O emissions following cash crops. All cover crop species increased CO 2 emissions, but reduced N 2 O emissions compared with no cover crop, except legumes which increased N 2 O emissions. Cover crop biomass explained 63% of variability in increased CO 2 emissions and 55% of variability in decreased N 2 O emissions. Both CO 2 and N 2 O emissions decreased polynomially with increased cover crop biomass C/N ratio, with greater rate of decline for legumes than nonlegumes. Cover crop residue incorporated into the soil increased CO 2 and N 2 O emissions compared with the residue placed at surface or removed from the soil. Cover crops emitted lower CO 2 and N 2 O emissions than no cover crops in silty loam and sandy clay loam soils, respectively, compared to clay loam and silty clay loam soils. Both soil organic carbon and total nitrogen increased with cover crop compared to no cover crop. Although CO 2 and N 2 O emissions varied with cover crop species, using legume and nonlegume cover crop mixture to enhance residue C/N ratio compared to legumes and placing the residue at the surface instead of incorporating into the soil can reduce GHG emissions. Because of enhanced soil C and N storage and other known benefits, improvement in soil health and environmental quality due to cover crop may outweigh CO 2 emissions compared to no cover crop. © 2019 Elsevier B.V.
Review Question: What are the eﬀects of cover crop management on carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide emissions?
