Title: Effects of elevated CO2 on plant C-N-P stoichiometry in terrestrial ecosystems: A meta-analysis
Abstract: A substantial number of experiments have so far been carried out to study the response of the C-N-P stoichiometry of terrestrial plants to the rising CO2 level of the earth. However, there is a need of systematic evaluation for assessing the impact of the elevated CO2 on plant C-N-P stoichiometry. In the present investigation, a comprehensive meta-analysis involving 386 published reports and including 4481 observations has been carried out. The goal of the research was to determine the response of plants to their C-N-P stoichiometry due to elevated levels of global atmospheric CO2. The results showed that rising CO2 altered the concentration of C (+2.19%, P < 0.05), N (-9.73%, P < 0.001) and P (-3.23%, P < 0.001) and C: N (+13.29%, P < 0.001) and N: P ratios (-7.32%, P < 0.0001). Overall, a slightly increasing trend in the C: P ratio (P > 0.05) in the plant was observed. However, plant leaf, shoot and herbaceous type of plants showed more sensitivity to rising CO2. CO2 magnitude exhibited a positive effect (P < 0.05) on C: N ratio. Additionally, ' CO2 acclimation' hypothesis as proposed by the authors of the current paper was also tested in the study. Results obtained, especially, show changes of C and N concentrations and C: P ratio to an obvious down-regulation for long-term CO2 fumigation. At spatial scales, a reduction of plant N concentration was found to be higher in the southern hemisphere. The CO2 enrichment methods affected the plant C-N-P stoichiometry. Compared to FACE (free-air CO2 enrichment), OTC (open top chamber) showed larger changes of C, N, P, and N: P. The results of the present study should, therefore, become helpful to offer a better understanding towards the response of the terrestrial plant C-N-P stoichiometry to an elevated global atmospheric CO2 in the future. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Review Question: What are the effects of elevated carbon dioxide on plant C-N-P stoichiometry in terrestrial ecosystems?
