Title: Trade-offs between soil carbon sequestration and reactive nitrogen losses under straw return in global agroecosystems
Abstract: It is widely recommended that crop straw be returned to croplands to maintain or increase soil carbon (C) storage in arable soils. However, because C and nitrogen (N) biogeochemical cycles are closely coupled, straw return may also affect soil reactive N (Nr) losses, but these effects remain uncertain, especially in terms of the interactions between soil C sequestration and Nr losses under straw addition. Here, we conducted a global meta-analysis using 363 publications to assess the overall effects of straw return on soil Nr losses, C sequestration and crop productivity in agroecosystems. Our results show that on average, compared to mineral N fertilization, straw return with same amount of mineral N fertilizer significantly increased soil organic C (SOC) content (14.9%), crop yield (5.1%), and crop N uptake (10.9%). Moreover, Nr losses in the form of nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions from rice paddies (17.3%), N leaching (8.7%), and runoff (25.6%) were significantly reduced, mainly due to enhanced microbial N immobilization. However, N2O emissions from upland fields (21.5%) and ammonia (NH3) emissions (17.0%) significantly increased following straw return, mainly due to the stimulation of nitrification/denitrification and soil urease activity. The increase in NH3 and N2O emissions was significantly and negatively correlated with straw C/N ratio and soil clay content. Regarding the interactions between C sequestration and Nr losses, the increase in SOC content following straw return was significantly and positively correlated with the decrease in N leaching and runoff. However, at a global scale, straw return increased net Nr losses from both rice and upland fields due to a greater stimulation of NH3 emissions than the reduction in N leaching and runoff. The trade-offs between increased net Nr losses and soil C sequestration highlight the importance of reasonably managing straw return to soils to limit NH3 emissions without decreasing associated C sequestration potential.
Review Question: What are the effects of straw return on reactive nitrogen loss pathways, crop productivity and soil carbon sequestration in agroecosystems?
