Title: Long-term (>= 20 years) application of fertilizers and straw return enhances soil carbon storage: a meta-analysis
Abstract: Increasing soil carbon (C) storage is crucial to addressing climate change and ensuring food security. The C sequestration potential of the world's cropland soil is 0.4-0.8 Pg soil C year(-1), which may be achieved through the adoption of recommended management practices (RMPs), including fertilizer management. This study aimed to quantitatively evaluate the influence of long-term application of different fertilizers and straw retention on soil organic carbon (SOC) storage, to compare the calculated response ratios with Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)-recommended default relative stock change factors, and to propose recommendations for enhancing SOC sequestration. The meta-analysis indicated that the long-term application of chemical fertilizers (CF), organic fertilizers (OF), combined chemical and organic fertilizers (CFOF), and straw return (SR) significantly enhanced the SOC storage. Response ratios varied significantly (p < 0.05) across different fertilization measures and climatic zones, and was sensitive to the initial SOC content. The mean response ratio was 0.94 for no fertilizer (NF), 1.08 for CF, 1.48 for OF, 1.38 for CFOF, and 1.28 for SR. When IPCC default values for response ratios were applied, SOC storage with OF and CFOF treatments in warm temperate regions with a dry climate was underestimated by 26%, and in the cool temperate region with a moist climate was overestimated by 25% (p < 0.05). Analysis showed that sustained application of organic fertilizers and straw return could be a beneficial measures to mitigate climate change and ensure food security in China. Our findings highlight the importance of deriving SOC stock change factors for a detailed classification of cropland by fertilizer management, climate, and soil types in order to more accurately reflect the effects of policy measures.
Review Question: What is the effect of long-term (≥20 years) application of fertilizers and straw return on soil carbon storage in cropland of China?
