Title: Differential effects of biological invasions on coastal blue carbon: A global review and meta-analysis
Abstract: Human-caused shifts in carbon (C) cycling and biotic exchange are defining characteristics of the Anthropocene. In marine systems, saltmarsh, seagrass, and mangrove habitats-collectively known as 'blue carbon' and coastal vegetated habitats (CVHs)-are a leading sequester of global C and increasingly impacted by exotic species invasions. There is growing interest in the effect of invasion by a diverse pool of exotic species on C storage and the implications for ecosystem-based management of these systems. In a global meta-analysis, we synthesized data from 104 papers that provided 345 comparisons of habitat-level response (plant and soil C storage) from paired invaded and uninvaded sites. We found an overall net effect of significantly higher C pools in invaded CVHs amounting to 40% (+/- 16%) higher C storage than uninvaded habitat, but effects differed among types of invaders. Elevated C storage was driven by blue C-forming plant invaders (saltmarsh grasses, seagrasses, and mangrove trees) that intensify biomass per unit area, extend and elevate coastal wetlands, and convert coastal mudflats into C-rich vegetated habitat. Introduced animal and structurally distinct primary producers had significant negative effects on C pools, driven by herbivory, trampling, and native species displacement. The role of invasion manifested differently among habitat types, with significant C storage increases in saltmarshes, decreases in seagrass, and no significant effect in mangroves. There were also counter-directional effects by the same species in different systems or locations, which underscores the importance of combining data mining with analyses of mean effect sizes in meta-analyses. Our study provides a quantitative basis for understanding differential effects of invasion on blue C habitats and will inform conservation strategies that need to balance management decisions involving invasion, C storage, and a range of other marine biodiversity and habitat functions in these coastal systems.
Review Question: What are the effects of biological invasions on carbon pools in coastal vegetated habitats (saltmarsh, seagrass, and mangrove habitats)?
