Title: Fire frequency and type regulate the response of soil carbon cycling and storage to fire across soil depths and ecosystems: A meta-analysis
Abstract: Fire is a very common disturbance in terrestrial ecosystems and can give rise to significant effects on soil carbon (C) cycling and storage. Here, we conducted a global meta-analysis on the response of soil C cycling and storage across soil profiles (organic layer, 0-5 cm, 0-10 cm, 0-20 cm, and 20-100 cm) to fire reported in 308 studies across 383 sites and examined the role of fire frequency, fire type, soil type, ecosystem type, and post-fire time in regulating the response of soil C dynamics to fire. Overall, we found soil C cycling and storage were more responsive to one fire and wildfire as compared to frequent fire and prescribed fire, respectively. Soil respiration significantly decreased by 22 +/- 9% by one fire, but was not significantly affected by frequent fire across ecosystems. One fire significantly reduced soil C content in the organic, 0-10 cm, and 20-100 cm layers by 27 +/- 16%, 10 +/- 9%, and 33 +/- 18%, respectively, while frequent fire significantly reduced soil C content at a depth of 0-5 cm and 0-20 cm by 29 +/- 8% and 16 +/- 12%, respectively. Soil C cycling and storage showed little response to frequent prescribed fire. In addition, the response of soil C cycling and storage varied among different soil and ecosystem types, with a stronger response being observed in forest than in grassland. Within 20 years post-fire, soil C cycling and storage tended to recover only after one fire but not after frequent fire. We also found that soil physicochemical properties and microbial communities were more responsive to one fire than frequent fire, which could indirectly affect the effects of fire on soil C cycling and storage. The results of our study have filled some critical gaps in previous meta-analyses in fire ecology.
Review Question: What is the impact of fire on soil carbon cycling and storage in terrestrial ecosystems?
