Title: Dynamics of soil carbon and nitrogen stocks after afforestation in arid and semi-arid regions: A meta-analysis
Abstract: Arid and semi-arid regions store approximately 27% of global soil organic carbon (SOC), thus playing an important role in the global carbon cycle. Although afforestation is widely used to achieve the goals of landscape protection and ecological restoration in these regions, its effects on the dynamics of SOC and total nitrogen (TN) stocks as well as the related controlling factors are still poorly understood. In this study, a meta-analysis was conducted by compiling results from published studies to evaluate the influences of afforestation on dynamics of SOC and TN stocks in mineral soils (0–30 cm) in arid and semi-arid regions, and to examine whether the changes in SOC and TN stocks were influenced by prior land-use, planted tree species and plantation age. The results showed that overall, afforestation significantly increased SOC stock by 131% and TN stock by 88%. Prior land-use was found to be the most important factor that influenced the dynamics of SOC and TN stocks following afforestation. Significantly larger increases in SOC and TN stocks were observed after barren land afforestation in comparison to cropland and grassland afforestation. The accumulations in SOC and TN stocks after afforestation decreased in the following order: broadleaf deciduous forests > coniferous forests > broadleaf evergreen forests. However, significant differences in SOC and TN accumulations were only detected between broadleaf deciduous forests and broadleaf evergreen forests. Plantation age did not affect the dynamics of SOC and TN stocks after afforestation, mainly due to the rapid accumulations in SOC and TN after barren land afforestation. The results indicate that afforestation, especially on barren land with broadleaf deciduous species, provides substantial opportunities for SOC and TN sequestrations in arid and semi-arid regions. © 2017 Elsevier B.V.
Review Question: What are the effects of afforestation on soil organic carbon and nitrogen stocks in arid and semi-arid regions?
