Title: Distinct response of high-latitude ecosystem and high-altitude alpine ecosystem to temperature and precipitation dynamics: A meta-analysis of experimental manipulation studies
Abstract: Cold biome ecosystems, extensively distributed on our planet, are highly sensitive to global changes. Fluctuations caused by climate change would inevitably affect the ecosystems' structure and functions. However, the linkage between cold biome ecosystems and global changes demonstrates high spatial heterogeneity, especially between high-latitude ecosystems (HL) and high-altitude alpine ecosystems (HA). A comparative analysis of their response patterns would provide deeper insight into the underlying mechanisms at play. We used meta-analysis to synthesize ecosystems' response to warming and altered precipitation performed in HL and HA. Warming and enhanced precipitation increases ecosystem biomass and carbon fluxes in HL and HA. Warming significantly stimulates aboveground biomass (AGB), root biomass (RB), total biomass (TB), aboveground net primary productivity, gross ecosystem productivity (GEP), soil respiration (SR), and net ecosystem productivity (NEP) in HL and HA. Similarly, AGB, GEP, and NEP increase significantly with enhanced precipitation. Respondent of ecosystem carbon storage and fluxes in HL and HA showed diverse results to warming treatment. Warming increases AGB and RB in HA while RB remains unaltered in HL. GEP and ER exhibit a positive response to warming in HL but an insignificant response in HA. In general, HL is sensitive to warming, and HA is sensitive to precipitation. The differential responses of HL and HA to climate change imply specific ecosystem traits and particular environmental constraining factors. Future cold biome ecosystem studies should further consider specific conditions like microtopography, soil moisture, and local climate unique to high-latitude and high-altitude ecosystems.
Review Question: What is the effect of warming or altered precipitation on change in ecosystem characteristics in high-latitude ecosystems compared to high-altitude alpine ecosystems?
